# helix-allostasis
Full scripts for air pollution, noise level and allostatic load in the HELIX study


# Allostatic load score

We defined two sets of allostatic load scores as the composite measures of the 19 biomarkers, namely count-based AL score and continuous AL score. Considering the sex differences in the concentration of biomarkers, sex-specific AL scores were calculated using the distribution of biomarkers in the study sample stratified by sex. 

For the count-based AL score, each biomarker with the highest quartile in the population distribution by sex was considered ‘high risk’ of physiological dysregulation and received a score of 1, except for HDL, adiponectin, and IL-10, where the lowest quartile was considered ‘high risk’; and for total cortisol production, both lowest and highest quartiles were labelled as ‘high risk’. The cutoffs of biomarkers included in allostatic load score are presented in Table 1. For the continuous AL score, distributions of biomarkers were rescaled to distributions between 0 and 1 (i.e., min-max normalization). Each biomarker was assigned a value between 0 and 1 positively according to their value after rescaling. For HDL, adiponectin, and IL-10, scores were reversed using 1-rescaled value. Total cortisol production was rescaled between -1 and 1, and rescaled value less than 0 was reversed by taking the absolute value of that rescaled value. This approach yields continuous scores that were always positive, with larger scores indicting higher risk and lower scores indicating lower risk. For both composite scores, we summed the biomarker scores in each physiological system and then derived the total count-based and continuous AL score by taking the sum of physiological system scores. Both scores have a theoretical range from 0 to 19. 
